# Adventure-works---Sales-Dashboard
Sales Dashboard represented in PowerBI
## ABOUT PROJECT 
This project involves analyzing the sales data in order to understand where customers sales preference is inline with company stratergic planning. The relationship with different tables has been build to understand and align inventory for better stock management. 
What if scenario based price point has been set up to understand liquidation of stock based on margins impact. 

## BUSINESS PROBLEM
Customer retention is as crucial as customer acquisition when it comes to increasing revenue. Also we know, it is much more expensive to sign in a new customer than keeping an existing one. So, optimizating customer needs and inventory management is crutial for Adventure works.
To capitalize the maximum benifits of invenory management and retain customer needs is crutial and thus this dashboard helps in maintaining the buying budget and optimise the supply chain in efficeint manner. 

## DATASET OVERVIEW

Adventure Works is a large multinational company that manufactures and distributes 4 categories of products: bikes, bike components /, accessories, and clothing. The company’s commercial market is spread across 3 continents and 6 countries namely North America (United States & Canada), Europe (France, Germany, and the United Kingdom), and Australia (Australia). The company sells through 2 main channels: Online sales and Wholesalers.

## DATA PREPARATION

I downloaded from Maven Analytics Platform, I explored the tables in the database and asked some basic question. 

What is our customer profile?

How does sales vary by product category, sub-category, and by region?

What product categories are being ordered the most?

Who are our top 5 customers and what top 5 products bring in the most sales?

How do sales and profit vary over time?

What customer-related factors drive revenue?

## DATA QUERYING

I queried each of the selected tables and returned summary statistics and calculated fields for the KPIs needed to populate my dashboard such as the total number of products, total product categories and sub-categories, the total number of customers, total number of countries, total order quantity, total product price, total sales amount, total profit and profit margin.

I imported the tables into PowerBI’s Power Query editor for data cleaning, transformation and modeling.

## DATA CLEANING

To clean each table in the dataset, I

Changed the data types for columns with incorrect data types.

Split some columns that contained concatenated information and renamed the split tables.

Removed columns that were not necessary for my analysis.

Replaced values for easy analysis.

Created custom columns where necessary.

## DATA MODELLING

Once done with the cleaning and transformation process, I closed and loaded the dataset into the model and created relationships among the 8 tables. The final model had multiple measures to use it explicit for better relationship. 

## DATA ANALYSIS

I analyzed the data in PowerBI desktop and created some DAX measures to enrich my analysis (e.g., calculating total profit, profit margin, Last year sales, Year-on-year (YoY) sales, and sales Year-to-date (YTD).

The results of the analysis are shown in the report and seeks to answer the aforementioned business questions.

## FINDINGS

The Bike product category was the most profitable in terms of revenue generated. However, most orders were placed in the Accessories product category.

Mountain, road, and touring bikes were the most lucrative product sub-categories.

The most revenue was generated by the United States (over $4.93 million), while Canada generated the least (about $0.97 million).

The highest revenue & profit was generated in 2017.

Product level filters and drill down filters helps in befining product life cycle and to maintain Open to Buy(OTB) in place.


## RECOMMENDATIONS

Based on my findings, I would recommend that Adventure Works:

Increase production and marketing of top revenue-generating product categories and sub-categories (Bikes specifically mountain, road & touring bikes) and pair them with accessories as bundle offers to maximize sales & profit.

Focus on replicating the profitable US & Australian marketing strategies in the least revenue-generating countries (Canada, France, Germany & the United Kingdom).

Incentives and rewards should be given to top-performing customers to encourage more sales. They can also conduct capacity-building sessions to mentor low-performing customers on effective strategies to improve sales.


